picture this your friend and you are
watching a sitcom and the sassy sidekick
walks into a room carrying a four tiered
wedding cake he trips Falls and
face-plants into the cake
your friend doubles over with laughter
and says so ridiculous so ironic Oh
quick what do you do do you laugh along
with the laugh track and let this
grievous misinterpretation of irony go
or you throw caution to the wind and
explain the true meaning of irony if
you're me you choose the latter
unfortunately irony has been completely
misunderstood we tend to throw out that
term whenever we see something funny or
coincidental and while many examples of
true irony can be funny that is not the
driving factor of being ironic a
situation is only ironic if what happens
is the exact opposite of what was
expected if you expect a but get B then
you have irony let's take the slapstick
cake situation as an example when
someone walks in precariously balancing
something that shouldn't be carried
alone trips Falls and makes a mess it is
funny but it's not ironic in fact you
probably expect someone who is
single-handedly carrying a huge cake to
trip when he does reality aligns with
expectations and so that is not irony
but what if the sassy sidekick walked in
wearing a gold medal that he'd won at
the cake walking event at the Atlanta
Olympics in 1996 what if that sidekick
was a professional cake carrier then
maybe there would have been a reasonable
expectation that he would have been more
skilled when carrying a ridiculously
large cake then when that reasonable
expectation was not met by the tripping
sidekick irony would have been
exemplified another example a senior
citizen texting and blocking the common
and reasonable expectation of more
mature men and women as if they don't
like or no technology that they have a
hard time turning on a computer or that
they have the old brick cellphones from
that I
teen 80s one should not expect them to
be connected high tech or savvy enough
to text or to be blogging which must
seem like some sort of newfangled thing
that back in my day they never had so
when granny pulls out her smartphone to
post pictures of her dentures or her
grandkids irony ensues reasonable
expectations of the situation are not
met that is irony so while the cake
dropper might not be ironic there are
all kinds of situations in life that are
go out and find those true examples of
irony
you